<h1>MVP Leveler</h1>
<body><br>J. Conor Sullivan</body></br>
<body><br>Software Design Lab</body></br>
<body><br>Professor Patrick Smyth</body></br>
<body><br>CUNY Graduate Center</body></br>
<body><br>May 25, 2020</body></br>
<h2>About the MVP Leveler</h2>
<body>The program I have submitted for my final projection (Option 2: The MVP) is intended to assist professionals in the educational publishing business with word leveling. Word leveling is a term used to describe the process of ensuring that the words included in a reading passage for curriculum or assessment materials are at the approrpiate grade level for the intended audience. The current process for this is time consuming and oftentimes frustrating.</body>
<body><br>The EDL Leveled Libraries is the industry standard for determining a word's appropriate grade level. The libraries are owned by Pearson Education and only distributed through PDF and hardcopy books. There is no dynamic way to search the libraries without scrolling through either physical or PDF pages. </body></br>
<body><br>To assuage the time on task for this work, the MVP Leveler has attempted to create a searchable index to allow practioners in the educational publishing field to cross-reference a word against a grade level. If the word is the appropriate grade level, the program will alert the user. If the word is above grade level, the program will inform the user that it needs to he replaced with an easier to understand word. </body></br>
<body><br>To achieve this, the programmers accessed public-domain references to previously published EDL lists in PDF found on university websites. These lists were then typeset into .txt files and fomatted for Python to import. </body></br>
<body><br>One of the goals of this project was to create clean code that users could use to expand on the library. One of the shortcomings of the EDL library is that the words are often only provided in one tense. For example, "expand" may be included but "expanded" may not be. Thus, since this will be a strict TRUE/FALSE program when searching for whether a word hits grade level, it seemed important to allow for easy editing of the lists. Users could add additional tenses and conjugations of each word to make more complete lists. The process to create new lists and edit existing lists is outlined in the provided README file in the MVP Leveler Package on Github. <body></br>
<body><br>Initially, the lists were created inside the Python code. However, this became evidently clunky once the programmers were faced with adding to the short Kindergarten list with the much longer Grade 1 list. Since the lists get exponentially longer with every grade, this seemed problematic for future list expansion. It was determined it would be best to have Python import the lists from txt files, which could be easily added to by layman users. <body></br>
<h2>Future Versions</h2>
<body>As the program is further developed, the programmers hope to add some more useful features. As of now, the MVP Leveler can only provide information on whether a single word is at or above the reading level selected. On V2 of the MVP Leveler, it would be preferred if the program could read an entire sentence, then print the words that are above grade level. This would save educational publishing practioners even more time. Further, it would be of added help if as the words were print out to the user, the program informed the user which grade level those words are considered to start at. This would enhance the uses for the program, as it would also provide useful reference knowledge for writing future passages.</body>
<body><br>Thank you for taking the time to download and use the MVP Leveler!</body></br>
